# Jitsu Helm Chart

[:warning: Read this before upgrading](#upgrading)

[:warning: Read this before using in production](#bitnami)

## TL;DR
```bash
helm install jitsu oci://registry-1.docker.io/stafftasticcharts/jitsu -f-<<EOF
ingress:
  host: "jitsu.example.com"
console:
  config:
    seedUserEmail: "me@example.com"
    seedUserPassword: "changeMe"
EOF
```

For a production deployment it is recommended to read through `values.yaml` and make conscious
decisions in order to ensure the deployment is secure, reliable and scalable. Dependencies are
minimally configured and do not provide high-availability out of the box.

## Basic Configuration
`values.yaml`:
```yaml
postgresql:
  auth:
    password: "changeMe"
mongodb:
  auth:
    passwords: ["changeMe"]
clickhouse:
  auth:
    password: "changeMe"

ingress:
  className: "nginx"
  annotations:
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: "letsencrypt"
  host: "jitsu.example.com"
  tls: true

console:
  config:
    # Populate with GitHub OAuth client credentials
    githubClientId: "..."
    githubClientSecret: "..."
```

Once you have logged in, set `console.config.disableSignup` to `true` to prevent anyone with a
GitHub account from using your instance.

See [values.yaml](values.yaml) for more configuration options.

## Dependencies
This chart deploys the following dependencies by default in order to provide an easy out-of-the-box
experience, however for production it is recommended you deploy these separately:

* Postgres
* Kafka
* MongoDB
* Clickhouse

In order to use your own instances of these, disable them in with their respective options:
```yaml
postgresql:
  enabled: false
kafka:
  enabled: false
mongodb:
  enabled: false
clickhouse:
  enabled: false
```

Then supply the connection details in the `config` section (or specifically per service):
```yaml
config:
  databaseUrl: "postgres://..."
  kafkaBootstrapServers: "kafka:9092,..."
  mongodbUrl: "mongodb://..."
  clickhouseHttpHost: "...:8123"
  clickhouseUsername: "..."
  clickhousePassword: "..."
```

## Configuration Options
The individual services' configuration corresponds to the environment variables they accept. For
services where every environment variable is prefixed with the service name, the prefix is stripped,
otherwise the keys are naïvely converted to camel case, with each letter that would follow an
underscore capitalized.

Some values, in particular those that contain sensitive information or connection information, also
allow you to reference a secret or configmap. In `values.yaml` these are suffixed with `From`. E.g.
to read the database URL (`config.databaseUrl`) from a secret, set it as you would an environment
variable:

```yaml
config:
  databaseUrlFrom:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: database-secret-name
      key: database-url-key
```

For the full list of variables that support this syntax, see `values.yaml`.

Many of the configuration values will be set automatically when left empty, such as connection
parameters for services deployed by the subcharts, tokens and URLs for inter-service communication
and values that can be directly derived from other values. When this is the case it is noted in the
comments above the value. Links are also provided to relevant upstream documentation.

Some configuration values contain structured data. For these you can either specify them as a string
as you would in an environment variable, or as a dict that will be converted to the appropriate
string representation by the chart.

One notable example of this, and the only exception to the 1:1 mapping of environment variables to
camel cased keys, is the `bulker.config.destination` value. The Bulker takes an arbitrary number of
destination environment variables in the form of `BULKER_DESTINATION_*`. These are represented in
`values.yaml` as a dict of either strings or dicts.

Example:

```yaml
bulker:
  config:
    destination:
      postgres:
        id: postgres
      s3: '{"id":"s3"}'
```

Becomes:

```bash
BULKER_DESTINATION_POSTGRES='{"id":"postgres"}'
BULKER_DESTINATION_S3='{"id":"s3"}'
```

If you prefer to configure one or more services manually through the environment, you can disable
the configuration abstractions by setting `config.enabled` to `false`, either at the top-level or
service-level.

## Inter-Service Authentication
The different Jitsu services communicate with each other using tokens and corresponding salted
hashes to verify. These can be managed manually, however by default they are generated by a job and
stored in a secret. Each service then gets access to the tokens they need through the environment.

In order to disable this, set `tokenGenerator.enabled` to `false` and supply the tokens manually.

## Running Connectors in a Different Namespace
By default syncctl runs connectors in the same namespace as the rest of the Jitsu services. If you
wish to run these ephemeral and to some degree user-controlled workloads in a separate namespace you
can set `syncctl.config.kubernetesNamespace` to the desired namespace, and the chart will create the
namespace, service proxies for the bulker and databse, and the necessary RBAC resources for you.

## Ensuring Idempotence
If using tools that render the chart without access to the cluster, such as Argo CD, set
`kafka.kraft.clusterId` to a random string to ensure it's not regnerated every time. This is only
necessary if you're using the Kafka subchart.

## Bitnami
This chart depends on Helm charts from [Bitnami Helm Charts](https://github.com/bitnami/charts).
The intended use of these included dependencies is to provide an immediately functioning Jitsu
deployment for use in evaluation, testing and development.

Bitnami is retiring its public catalog of Helm charts and container images, meaning none of these
components will receive updates. We have already switched over to `bitnamilegacy` images, which will
remain available, but again receive no updates.

**These dependencies should not be used in production, will not receive updates and will be removed
from the chart.**

See [Dependencies](#dependencies) for instructions on how to provide connection details to your own
externally managed dependencies.

See https://github.com/bitnami/charts/issues/35164 for information on the changes to Bitnami's
public catalog.

## Upgrading
It's not necessary to go through all intermediate versions when upgrading, however if upgrading to a
version greater or equal to one mentioned below, additional steps may be required. This generally
only encompasses breaking changes within the chart itself. New versions of Jitsu may still introduce
breaking changes not covered here.

### v2.0.0
This release sets the default ClickHouse database to `newjitsu_metrics` as some components did not
behave correctly with the old default (`default`). If you have data you wish to keep in the old
`default` database, you may need to manually migrate this.

Kafka is now configured with only a single controller replica by default. It is recommended to
explicitly set this to 3 replicas if you are upgrading and using the default configuration.

ClickHouse is now configured with only a single shard and single replica by default. It is
recommended to explicitly set this to 2 shards and 3 replicas if you are upgrading and using the
default configuration.

### v1.6.0
This release splits the `config.clickhouseHost` and `config.clickhouseHostFrom` parameters up into
separate parameters for HTTP and TCP, as different components require different protocols. If you
were using these parameters, simply set `config.clickhouseHttpHost` and `config.clickhouseTcpHost`
(or the equivalent `...From` variants) making sure to set the correct port. If you were setting this
on a per-component basis or letting the chart configure it for you no action is needed.

ClickHouse is now also set up to use Zookeeper instead of ClickHouse Keeper as it is currently
broken in Bitnami's Helm chart for ClickHouse: https://github.com/bitnami/charts/issues/15935. If
you had a working configuration using ClickHouse Keeper, you will need to explicitly enable it and
disable Zookeeper to avoid switching over to a fresh Zookeeper deployment.

### v1.4.0
This release disables the Redis deployment by default as it is no longer required by Jitsu v2.5.0.
If you have functions persistent storage or identity stitching data you wish to keep, set
`redis.enabled` to `true` to enable "double read" mode as outlined in the [release notes for Jitsu
v2.5.0](https://github.com/jitsucom/jitsu/releases/tag/jitsu2-v2.5.0).

### v1.1.0
The Rotor is now also protected with an auth token when using the token generator (enabled by
default). This means that if you have an old token secret you will either need to add values for the
Rotor to the secret or delete the secret and let the token generator create a new one upon
deployment. Deleting the secret will also use the uniform format across services introduced in Jitsu
v2.4.5.
